README.md, before:

# Dallas IoZT 🐘 <a name="1_Dallas_IoZT_"></a>

![screenshot](images/screenshot.png)

## Contents <a name="contents"></a>

1. [Developer Overview 🚀](#2_Developer_Overview_)
2. [Developer Setup ⚙️](#3_Developer_Setup_)
    1. [Ensure you have the following downloaded:](#4_Ensure_you_have_the_following_downloaded)
    2. [Clone this repository](#5_Clone_this_repository)
    3. [Install all dependencies](#6_Install_all_dependencies)
    4. [Create a .env file](#7_Create_a_env_file)
3. [Developer Tools Included 🛠](#8_Developer_Tools_Included_)
    1. [ESLint](#9_ESLint)
    2. [Storybook](#10_Storybook)
4. [How to run 🏃‍♀️](#11_How_to_run_)
5. [Codebase Architecture 🏗](#12_Codebase_Architecture_)
6. [Deployment ⤴️](#13_Deployment_)

## Developer Overview 🚀 <a name="2_Developer_Overview_"></a>

As a quick overview, here's the architecture of the web app:

* Frontend
  * [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html): JavaScript framework for building modular frontend components
  * [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/): Renders static webpages and serves them from the Node backend (API also includes page routing, etc.)
  * [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/): CSS framework used to easily create responsive designs
    * Keeps sizing based on relative sizes (like `rem`) rather than absolute pixels
    * Declutters app CSS
  * [Blueprint](https://blueprintjs.com/docs/#core/): UI component library
  * [styled-components](https://styled-components.com/docs/): Allows React components to be extended with CSS interwoven (primarily used for edge cases that `tailwind` can't easily tackle)
* Backend
  * Node.js/Express.js: Creates a server using JavaScript
  * [Apollo GraphQL](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/): Allows interaction between the client and server using a data graph rather than a REST API
* Database
  * [NeDB](https://github.com/louischatriot/nedb): NoSQL lite database solution
    * Functionally similar to older versions of MongoDB. Check the documentation for further information.

## Developer Setup ⚙️ <a name="3_Developer_Setup_"></a>

### Ensure you have the following downloaded: <a name="4_Ensure_you_have_the_following_downloaded"></a>

* [Node.js/NPM](https://nodejs.org/en/)
* [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) (optional): Replaces `NPM` as your package manager. I prefer `Yarn` but they're very similar so it's not a huge deal. You can install `Yarn` with `npm install -g yarn`.

### Clone this repository <a name="5_Clone_this_repository"></a>

Get the repository `git` URL and run `git clone your-url-here` after navigating to wherever you'd like to download this codebase on your device.

### Install all dependencies <a name="6_Install_all_dependencies"></a>

Run either `npm install` or `yarn install`. You may have to configure a [proxy](https://www.jhipster.tech/configuring-a-corporate-proxy/) with your package manager if you're on the VPN.

### Create a .env file <a name="7_Create_a_env_file"></a>

Create a file named `.env` at the root of this project. This file will contain all of your environment variables. Check out the `.env.example` file for guidance.

## Developer Tools Included 🛠 <a name="8_Developer_Tools_Included_"></a>

The following developer tools are included to make collaboration a little smoother:

### ESLint <a name="9_ESLint"></a>

This linter will check coding style and will warn you when you've written any code that violates the code guidelines. Run `npm run lint --fix` or `yarn lint --fix` to run the linter and automatically fix anything that can be fixed by ESLint.

There's also a precommit git hook which requires the code to pass the linter before allowing a commit.

### Storybook <a name="10_Storybook"></a>

Storybook enables developers to write MDX files (markdown that can include JSX, or the HTML-esque markup used in React), which allows self-documentation of reusable modules. To view this documentation, run `npm run storybook` or `yarn storybook`. You can create and edit any component stories that exist in the `/components/stories` directory. This functionality is primarily reserved for primitives, not larger, more specific components or any components that require any API queries.

## How to run 🏃‍♀️ <a name="11_How_to_run_"></a>

`npm run dev` or `yarn dev` will start a development server and allow you to access the app in the browser, automatically reloading anytime you save a file.

`npm start` or `yarn start` will do the same, but won't reload when the backend changes.

## Codebase Architecture 🏗 <a name="12_Codebase_Architecture_"></a>

Beginning a the root directory,

* `/components` contains reusable React components, which can be imported into any React file. `/components/layout` specify layout components such as the Navbar, Side Menu, and Footer, `/components/pages` specify components that correspond to individual pages (ex. tables that appear on certain pages), and `/components/primitives` specify primitives which are reused throughout the application, such as Buttons. Additionally, `/components/providers` contains higher-order components, such as a theme wrapper or a wrapper to pass the currently logged-in user as a property.

* `/pages` contains the individual routed pages, such as the homepage (`index.js`) or the users page (`users.js`). Creating a new file in this directory creates a new route with the same name. Nested routes can be created using folders.

* `/server` contains all the backend code for the GraphQL API. `/server/types` declare the GraphQL resolvers (like a header file). and `/server/resolvers` define those functions. When a request is made by the client, the corresponding resolver will be executed.

* `/utils` contains globally-utilized code segments, including helper functions, GraphQL queries to be referenced by the client, React hooks, and data models.

* `.eslintrc` defines the ESLint ruleset--if any rules need to be modified or ignored altogether, that can be done here.

* `tailwind.config.js` defines the configuration for the `tailwindcss` classes. This includes global theme elements, such as the primary blue color used throughout the site.

## Deployment ⤴️ <a name="13_Deployment_"></a>

This application is being superficially tested on Heroku, which maintains a [dev deployment](https://iozt-dev.herokuapp.com/) and a [prod deployment](https://iozt.herokuapp.com). These are simply to allow user testing of latest versions of the UI, and are not connected to any real feeder devices. When deploying to Heroku, the `HEROKU=true` environment variable must be added to bypass the requirement of having a Lora controller service URL in a production mode.

Commit message:

added docs for github actions workflows

README.md, after:

# Dallas IoZT 🐘 <a name="1_Dallas_IoZT_"></a>

![screenshot](images/screenshot.png)

## Contents <a name="contents"></a>

1. [Developer Overview 🚀](#2_Developer_Overview_)
2. [Developer Setup ⚙️](#3_Developer_Setup_)
    1. [Ensure you have the following downloaded:](#4_Ensure_you_have_the_following_downloaded)
    2. [Clone this repository](#5_Clone_this_repository)
    3. [Install all dependencies](#6_Install_all_dependencies)
    4. [Create a .env file](#7_Create_a_env_file)
3. [Developer Tools Included 🛠](#8_Developer_Tools_Included_)
    1. [ESLint](#9_ESLint)
    2. [Storybook](#10_Storybook)
    3. [GitHub Actions](#14_GitHub_Actions)
4. [How to run 🏃‍♀️](#11_How_to_run_)
5. [Codebase Architecture 🏗](#12_Codebase_Architecture_)
6. [Deployment ⤴️](#13_Deployment_)

## Developer Overview 🚀 <a name="2_Developer_Overview_"></a>

As a quick overview, here's the architecture of the web app:

* Frontend
  * [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html): JavaScript framework for building modular frontend components
  * [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/): Renders static webpages and serves them from the Node backend (API also includes page routing, etc.)
  * [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/): CSS framework used to easily create responsive designs
    * Keeps sizing based on relative sizes (like `rem`) rather than absolute pixels
    * Declutters app CSS
  * [Blueprint](https://blueprintjs.com/docs/#core/): UI component library
  * [styled-components](https://styled-components.com/docs/): Allows React components to be extended with CSS interwoven (primarily used for edge cases that `tailwind` can't easily tackle)
* Backend
  * Node.js/Express.js: Creates a server using JavaScript
  * [Apollo GraphQL](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/): Allows interaction between the client and server using a data graph rather than a REST API
* Database
  * [NeDB](https://github.com/louischatriot/nedb): NoSQL lite database solution
    * Functionally similar to older versions of MongoDB. Check the documentation for further information.

## Developer Setup ⚙️ <a name="3_Developer_Setup_"></a>

### Ensure you have the following downloaded: <a name="4_Ensure_you_have_the_following_downloaded"></a>

* [Node.js/NPM](https://nodejs.org/en/)
* [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) (optional): Replaces `NPM` as your package manager. I prefer `Yarn` but they're very similar so it's not a huge deal. You can install `Yarn` with `npm install -g yarn`.

### Clone this repository <a name="5_Clone_this_repository"></a>

Get the repository `git` URL and run `git clone your-url-here` after navigating to wherever you'd like to download this codebase on your device.

### Install all dependencies <a name="6_Install_all_dependencies"></a>

Run either `npm install` or `yarn install`. You may have to configure a [proxy](https://www.jhipster.tech/configuring-a-corporate-proxy/) with your package manager if you're on the VPN.

### Create a .env file <a name="7_Create_a_env_file"></a>

Create a file named `.env` at the root of this project. This file will contain all of your environment variables. Check out the `.env.example` file for guidance.

## Developer Tools Included 🛠 <a name="8_Developer_Tools_Included_"></a>

The following developer tools are included to make collaboration a little smoother:

### ESLint <a name="9_ESLint"></a>

This linter will check coding style and will warn you when you've written any code that violates the code guidelines. Run `npm run lint --fix` or `yarn lint --fix` to run the linter and automatically fix anything that can be fixed by ESLint.

There's also a precommit git hook which requires the code to pass the linter before allowing a commit.

### Storybook <a name="10_Storybook"></a>

Storybook enables developers to write MDX files (markdown that can include JSX, or the HTML-esque markup used in React), which allows self-documentation of reusable modules. To view this documentation, run `npm run storybook` or `yarn storybook`. You can create and edit any component stories that exist in the `/components/stories` directory. This functionality is primarily reserved for primitives, not larger, more specific components or any components that require any API queries.

### GitHub Actions <a name="#14_GitHub_Actions"></a>

GitHub Actions are continuous integration checks built into the GitHub platform. You can make sure that your branch passes the lint and build checks by opening a pull request and navigating to the `Checks` tab. These checks are required to pass in order to merge in a pull request; this helps make sure buggy code doesn't end up in `develop` or `master`!

## How to run 🏃‍♀️ <a name="11_How_to_run_"></a>

`npm run dev` or `yarn dev` will start a development server and allow you to access the app in the browser, automatically reloading anytime you save a file.

`npm start` or `yarn start` will do the same, but won't reload when the backend changes.

## Codebase Architecture 🏗 <a name="12_Codebase_Architecture_"></a>

Beginning a the root directory,

* `/components` contains reusable React components, which can be imported into any React file. `/components/layout` specify layout components such as the Navbar, Side Menu, and Footer, `/components/pages` specify components that correspond to individual pages (ex. tables that appear on certain pages), and `/components/primitives` specify primitives which are reused throughout the application, such as Buttons. Additionally, `/components/providers` contains higher-order components, such as a theme wrapper or a wrapper to pass the currently logged-in user as a property.

* `/pages` contains the individual routed pages, such as the homepage (`index.js`) or the users page (`users.js`). Creating a new file in this directory creates a new route with the same name. Nested routes can be created using folders.

* `/server` contains all the backend code for the GraphQL API. `/server/types` declare the GraphQL resolvers (like a header file). and `/server/resolvers` define those functions. When a request is made by the client, the corresponding resolver will be executed.

* `/utils` contains globally-utilized code segments, including helper functions, GraphQL queries to be referenced by the client, React hooks, and data models.

* `.eslintrc` defines the ESLint ruleset--if any rules need to be modified or ignored altogether, that can be done here.

* `tailwind.config.js` defines the configuration for the `tailwindcss` classes. This includes global theme elements, such as the primary blue color used throughout the site.

## Deployment ⤴️ <a name="13_Deployment_"></a>

This application is being superficially tested on Heroku, which maintains a [dev deployment](https://iozt-dev.herokuapp.com/) and a [prod deployment](https://iozt.herokuapp.com). These are simply to allow user testing of latest versions of the UI, and are not connected to any real feeder devices. When deploying to Heroku, the `HEROKU=true` environment variable must be added to bypass the requirement of having a Lora controller service URL in a production mode.
